from the first day you have to believe
in yourself
everyone will make you doubt
when i created pigment the idea came
from what i saw we are replacing excel
we managed to win incredible deals with
the best companies in the world it's
always about raising the bar higher and
higher everything i do i do at more than
100 percent
[Music]
hi everyone i'm eleanor crispo
co-founder and co-ceo of pigment
and i'm here to explain
why for everyone in the audience i
believe all of you are from sas
companies pretty much
why you should actually pay more
attention into your customers than into
your revenue so that may sound strange
but you know when you look at the sas
playbook um in general uh we always talk
about arr right arr is probably the
first metric that we look at you know
when we look at the series a at the
series b and many milestone abuses that
are more geared toward your financial
rather than your customers
however
i'm going to share our own experience
with pigment and my past experience as
an investor i used to work for index
ventures which is a very large vc fund
in europe and in the us and one thing
that always got up our attention
index was when companies
very early stage would come and talk
about some iconic brands they managed to
sign very early on and that would always
trigger our attention because we would
think well you know they probably have a
very trustworthy product here because
you know they managed to sign very
interesting names out there and they are
probably thinking carefully about their
go to market so what i want to explain
today is first of all obviously
why you should actually pay attention
into picking your customer why you
should also be very very much focused
into the customer you sign but also
obviously how because this is very
difficult when you want to actually
spend spend time picking and cherry
picking your customers and turning them
into advocates
so i will spend time showing you first
of all what we did at pigment
in the first six months after our public
launch these are the type of companies
we actually signed so you probably know
some of them some are actually iconic
size bronze so you probably know the
figma the dbt of this world
some are very famous bronze for cfos
carter breaks some are iconics brand for
sales team i can talk about gong for
instance
and you could think that this happened
by luck but actually our product is a
must-have for finance and sales team uh
to be very clear on what we do we
actually replace excel for fast growing
companies so it means that basically
when excel when you outgrow excel or
spreadsheet in general you start
knocking at the door and looking for a
solution to become your database and to
basically have finance team sales team
and hr team collaborate on one tool
and um what we wanted as you know we
created this uh core product was to make
sure obviously we could create trust and
credibility
with all of our customer base
and so what was important here is that
first of all we wanted to build
confidence because what we sell first
with pigment is confidence confidence in
your numbers and confidence in the
decisions that you take
and our core persona are actually cfos
cross vphrs and when they look to buy a
tool what they look for really
is a tool that they can trust and that
they can partner with for many years
and so we actually spent a ton of time
and effort with my team to try to sign
the biggest logos in the fast-growing
ecosystem fast growing company ecosystem
to make sure we could unlock the next
wave of customer
so in order to do that i will explain
obviously the methodology we used
later on but i have to say it was
literally like claiming the everest
without oxygen it was a very very hard
process but i will explain obviously why
it pays off and why i think it's very
important especially in this world where
as you know we have a very big economic
crisis ahead and the 80 budget are going
to be very much constrained and so this
trust and credibility you can create
with your customer is going to be even
more critical
so i will explain the why so first of
all you need to know that in general
people an organization are risk averse
when it comes to buying sas so i've put
a sentence here no one got fired for
buying ibm that could be no one got
fired from buying sap or salesforce and
you could put any leader name next to it
meaning that literally it could be
anyone saying that it could be jason and
king it could be elon musk doesn't
matter
everyone seems the same here the
companies the market leaders you know
the cfos the cros they will never get
fired if they decide to go for sap
versus another erp right
and when you come and you're a new
player in the sas ecosystem no matter
who you sell to whether it's too small
companies mean market or enterprise you
are nobody you have no brand no one
knows about you right and so in a way
how can a company no matter what the
size
is of that company will trust you and
decide to put a significant budget into
buying your tool for us you know we have
an average contract value of pretty much
70k and you know people need to
understand why they should put such a
budget in a tool and the problem is that
obviously especially in this time you
know companies need to understand if you
will scale if you will have enough
funding to actually be sustainable in
the next two three years and we all know
that obviously the vc and the tech
ecosystem right now is getting harder
there and obviously
there are also other questions around
your product the quality of your product
the security of your product and you see
how strong your product is
and because these people are risk
adverse you need to actually embrace
that and make it and turning it as an
advantage for you
and this is what i mean by this slide
what this organization are going to look
for are the next generation of market
leaders
and here what i would advise everyone to
do the first advice would be to actually
use confirmation bias as a good thing
and turn it into a good thing for you
and what i mean there is that when you
sign for instance for us as i mentioned
you know the carter the breaks of this
world that are the best brands for cfo
when we sign gong that is a very very
solid brand for sales teams i can tell
you that the next sales team that will
actually look at pigment or the next
finance team that will look at pigment
and know that some of the market
visionaries that are worth you know one
two three ten billion plus
that they have made the choice to
actually go with our solution that's a
fantastic confirmation bias and even if
you are no one in your ecosystem that
will certainly help
obviously you need to go further than
that and when i say that you need to go
further than that it's not only about
signing these logos but it's about
turning them into advocates because
that's not enough right to say yeah we
are trustworthy we've signed breaks no
it's when someone will talk to the cfo
figma he needs to understand that the
figma team absolutely loves your product
and it's the same for any category you
can sell to smb and you have this iconic
asmb brands that everyone will know
about whether they are b2c brand or
bronze known for your niche right if you
sell sas for hr there are some hr bronze
smb that are very well known that you
can sell into
if these teams speak for you and say
this is the tool that changed my life i
can tell you that you win even 10x more
of trustworthiness in the ecosystem
and obviously when you manage to
convince these visionaries that will
unlock the next wave of customer and
this wave will be massive because you
will have a locked obviously
some super power with this fantastic
bronze
so now i want to give you six tips to
succeed and to make sure you can
actually deliver on signing and be very
very much focused on signing iconic
brands and then obviously turning them
into advocates so the first
the first tip i want to give is about
the wish list you should make
so here
what is going to be key for you is to
first of all draw a picture of your
ideal customer profile and you shouldn't
do that three four years down the line
you should do that even before starting
your company you should do that when
you're actually designing the first
layers of your product and with my
co-founder homer before starting pigment
we actually spent nine months speaking
to the ecosystem defining our ideal
customer profile understanding what
would be the persona that would have the
biggest pain at a certain point in time
and yet would be willing to buy fast the
tool and we designed the first steps of
pigment with this in mind and we kept
asking ourselves are we you know taking
the the right ideal customer profile
and so when i made my list and my letter
to santa you know my letter was like oh
please you know i would like to sign
snowflake i would like to sign datadog i
would like to sign those big names right
that would be my dream so you put your
dream there and you're like well
actually is it realistic you know you
probably you're gonna do a public launch
and probably you need to sign big names
as i mentioned before in the first six
months to gain traction right
does it take six months to sell to slove
lake probably not you know cell cycles
are long with large public companies on
snowflake now is a large public company
same with data log so when you do that
list what i would strongly encourage you
to do is what would be an ideal sales
cycle for you and understand obviously
from there what it means for your market
like is actually you know the biggest
name on your list actually probably too
big for you for now but this is probably
the next way for next year the year
after and what's more realistic and so
for us what we decided to do is to say
okay look we still want to sign very big
next generation market leader that
experience still a massive paint you
know companies that are post service
people seriously that are struggling
with spreadsheets
but yet
are very capable of buying a tool in one
or two months and this was our ideal
customer profile and this is what we
went after and we focused all of our
time and energy on that to make sure we
could sign the dbt the ledger the
monument the delivery the figma of this
world
the second tip is around leveraging your
network i think it's something that
people do not do enough
what i mean by that is that
you are surrounded by people that are
willing to help and that have an
interest to help you
why do they have an interest to help you
uvcs you angels the obviously want you
to be successful
they want you to be successful and guess
what they have a fantastic portfolio
usually
so even before choosing the partners
that you want with you around the table
my number one advice would be to think
what vc what advisor what angel what
operator has the network that i need to
actually unlock some customers so to
give you an example if you are
selling to small customers small
businesses perhaps you want a vc that
has a portfolio of 400 companies
and if you are mid market probably you
want a vc that is not only doing seed
but also series there and there's a
portfolio that can help perhaps you also
want to bring
in your network operators that also have
a network and that can help you one of
them is here julian for instagram from
facebook that helped a lot you know with
his network of companies to unlock
obviously the first logos so i would
strongly encourage you to actually look
around and find some people that can
help you so that's not enough because it
looks very much hand crafted if you just
look at that right you need to be
systematic and to treat that as a proper
outbound channel so it should be a
proper legion channel on its own to
actually say i have a channel to sign
iconic brands that are going to unlock
my next wave of customer so the playbook
we we did at pigment is simple
we started to create some mini crms with
all of our vc all of our advisor
tracking all the p0 p1 p2 priorities of
the companies we wanted to sign and
making it a win-win meaning that
basically we would all follow and have
like proper processes to follow the
different ops making sure you know we
bring them on board when we are close to
actually converting a lead into a demo
converting a demo into you know the next
step and then the closing etc etc but
you have to treat it and put people to
treat this as a proper marketing channel
the other important part is not only to
involve your network but the network you
win you want to bring in the next wave
of your company and the network you want
to bring in your next wave of your
company are probably the next vcs that
are going to come on board and that has
worked really well for us and again it's
a win-win situation what i love to do
you know when someone is interested in
pigment is to actually tell them
that you know if they start making a
couple of intros to their portfolio
companies not only their portfolio
companies will benefit a lot from
probably you know looking at pigment and
installing pigment as a tool to help
them you know take faster decisions
around their business especially in this
world when you know you have to deal
with your financials the most perfect
way but also obviously because they will
see if this customer buys the tool and
if they are happy with the tool and this
is the best judges they can do right
like if they manage to get one or two of
their portfolio companies interested in
buying and they see that this company
love it it's a total win-win
third tip
bring the right people here i'm talking
about employees and your early employees
what you need at the beginning of the
adventure
is to bring people that are expert in
the field i will come back to the
beginning of the presentation when i
told you how much trust and credibility
matter when you have no brand you know
for us it's very clear we are not in the
magic quadrant of gartner yet we are too
young we are not in the next wave of
forester this is what we are looking for
because we are selling mid-market
enterprise
what do you do
people have to trust your team because
they are not buying a product at that
stage they are buying an experience and
they are buying the team and they are
buying what you offer them
so you need to bring experts that they
can trust but these experts
not only need to be experts in their
field they need to be flexible and they
need to understand that at this stage of
the company you have no playbook
meaning you have no sales enablement you
have nothing they will have to sell on
their own
so it means they will have to be a mix
of bdr a mix of sales understanding the
product really well understanding have a
lot of empathy obviously for the
customer but also understanding how to
create a perfect communication channel
with the product team this is what will
be game changer as your first employees
finally something we did with pigment
was to hire very senior talents day one
and i can tell you that this is a very
big accelerator as well of growth for
two reasons first of all senior people
they have their own network so they are
going to bring also you know the next
wave of customers they know the
methodology and at the very beginning i
can tell you you have no time to train
anyone you know if someone reports to
the ceo
you are not there to coach them they
need to be autonomous day one and they
need to know what to do but also
obviously they bring this trust this
credibility and they will bring not only
the next wave of customer but the next
wave of employees and a plus player with
them
so these are the things and it's a very
complex recipe but that i think are
instrumental to the first uh the first
layers of your success
next tip is tip for the ceo itself
himself so the ceo here the
the ceo
needs to be very much involved in this
process so here i can tell you that i
spent at least a third of my time with
customers so it sounds like a lot right
but at this stage it's just absolutely
critical that the ceo creates and lays
relationships with their first customers
why that it's very simple
the ceo you know
can commit himself to things that your
sales team will never be able to commit
to so i can tell you right now we are
about to sign one of the largest fintech
in europe
and this company
they are talking directly to me they
have a direct channel they text me every
day and they know that i commit myself
to things that we will deliver
whether it's you know customer
experience slas the way we will deal
with them when when there are signs etc
these are things that obviously they
will trust your sales team but when you
come from the ceo it's obviously 10x
more powerful because they know that you
cannot commit to something you will not
do so i would say even if you sell to
small companies building relationship
with your first commerce customers is
going to be fantastic because you are
going to hear their pains and you are
going to understand really what can make
them the greatest advocates of your tool
that goes with
this fifth advice around involving your
customers in your product decisions
here the idea is simple
your first customers as i mentioned
before if they trusted you early on it's
probably because they are visionaries
you would probably never buy a tool that
early stage if you don't have an idea
that yes it's probably going to change
the way you work and so you should
carefully listen to them and the way i
like to to to tell my employees about
how we should think about
our first customers we should treat them
as co-founders of the company we should
treat them as co-founders meaning that
really literally exactly like your first
employees your first customers are
co-founders of your product
however one mistake that many companies
do
is to obviously listen to all of the
first customers especially when they are
iconic brands and take you know all the
feature requests that they get and panic
over it and things that you know they
have to deliver on all of these requests
because these requests are so important
because these are iconic brands and you
want to serve them well
so a tip actually to avoid this is
to set a vision around where you want to
bring your product and bring your
customer on board with that vision with
some very very clear feature concept
around principles that you want to adopt
or not and explaining them basically
what's the next wave of your customers
so for us it's simple we are always
going up market so idea for us is to
sign
as an x-ray the fortune 500 and hence
you know the fast-growing companies is
our first market and it's a market will
always serve well but we also have to
build for the future and that's very
interesting for them by the way because
obviously they are young companies that
want to grow and become the next fortune
500. so we are building this enterprise
features and once they understand these
product principles they can really
participate into the roadmap so
something we do at pigment for example
is we organize this customer advisory
board we have one actually next week in
paris where we bring all of our first
important customers together in one room
and we make them look at the roadmap of
the next three months we let them
interact with that roadmap give us
feedback understand what's important for
them what's not so critical what's key
for the next three months what's key
maybe in two years from now for them etc
and then we debate together we also
created an online community where people
can basically come
and discuss again features together
avoid features that will be important
for them
and i can tell you that this has worked
so well i can give you concrete examples
but
we built a connector to g-sheet thanks
to the team at delivery we are building
a sort of spreadsheet within pigment
thanks to some feedback that we got and
we accelerated that that uh that would
make sense to to feedback we got from
breaks on sigma so we really listen and
not only we need to listen but we need
to thank them and they need to
understand that these features have been
delivered thanks to them maybe i will
name the feature after them at some
point we'll see but that's later
and finally
what i've put here is kind of
counterintuitive but it's also about
making sure that as i mentioned when you
have an ideal customer personnel on an
ideal customer profile you shouldn't
derive from there and it means that if
some people knock at the door and want
to buy your product but yet are too
small or too big for you i would
strongly advise you to build trust with
them by recommending competitive
alternatives and it might sound
counterintuitive but i can tell you that
they will thank you in two years when
they understand maybe that you know it's
now time to switch to a tool like
pigment because maybe it was not the
tool for the size they were in at and
this is something we now do constantly
to make sure that we don't lose the
focus on the size of the company we are
going after
another thing to keep in mind is that
not only the companies are growing but
also the people that you have involved
and your customers are growing
figma for instance preview
head of fpa who bought the tool in
december got promoted yesterday as a cfo
of figma
he you know he's going to be a big voice
in the valley right and so if you manage
to actually create a special
relationship with his first customers
that will obviously change the
trajectory of pigment and i can tell you
that we are very proud of the community
we have created and our customers are
willing to help us
above and beyond spending time with not
only other customers but vcs writing g2
reviews helping us with analyst
relationships etc because we give them a
very strong voice that they don't always
get and this works really well
especially when we are in a market where
usually you know other players have not
spent so much time and attention on that
category of
of buyers
finally you should differentiate through
your product on your touch
so here you need to find what makes you
so special as a company what makes you
so different as a brand and how can you
actually create long-term partnerships
with iconic brands so obviously there is
this trust relationships we talked about
but it's not only about that it's about
how can we build the future together and
how can we both become obviously the
next generation of leader in tomorrow's
world and if you manage to do that by
you know sharing obviously not only your
product as i mentioned but sharing a
full experience package you know sharing
your values sharing what makes you
different you know in the way you will
serve customers because this is very
true you know for largest companies
today they are not buying a product they
are buying the end-to-end experience
they are buying the sls they are buying
the team that actually can help them in
a day-to-day basis support them when
they have an issue with the tool and if
you manage to differentiate by showing
them that you can treat them differently
that you are always here for them and
when you pitch them your vision you know
treat them like vcs like future partners
like co-founders
that will completely change your
relationship because they need to
understand that it's not a customer
relationship what you are trying to
create goes way beyond and you want them
to be on your side for the next 10 years
not you know just as a small quick deal
that you're making right now
finally you need to be honest about what
you cannot and can deliver that goes
back to what i was saying before
around the fact that you know
when you have your roadmap when you have
um you know the customer experience
design etc
you need to tell them clearly that these
are the things that yes we will do next
year this we won't you should not over
promise on anything because again
you need to create this very very
trustworthy relationship
so finally i'm just going to recap
what i've tried to explain today
so my top takeaways are very simple the
first one is to create that top logo
list this wishlist this letter to center
that you will write
it's exactly the same letter by the way
you should write when you pick your
co-founder on when you choose your first
employees you should always have a
wishlist that this is a dream my dream
is to have romantically as a co-founder
yes i've done it romanico is my
co-founder but that's really what you
should do is you should write this list
and be very clear about the logos you
would like to sign
and so once you've done this list
obviously then you need to trim it you
need to understand what's feasible
what's realistic etc you have to design
your roadmap again to be very much
focused not only from a roadmap
perspective but from a go to market
perspective on that wishlist
deliver obviously around the master
features that are helpful for that uh
market basically and then leverage all
the hollow effects you can use for the
big bronze that you can manage to sign
and make sure you see that you turn them
into advocates because this advocacy
is the cheapest marketing channel it's
even a channel where your marketers are
paying for your tool
and it's the cheapest marketing channel
that can unlock the neg waves of the
hundred the thousand customers you are
going to sign and not only the customers
but also your equity story
and finally
please work with your network use all
available resources and be very
systematic about what you do using as i
said like you know putting in place
proper process to make sure you don't do
it on the side and you are capable to
scale that go to market strategy and i
think this is the hardest because it's
not an outbound channel that is
something that has a proper playbook so
you need to create yours depending on
your
channel and obviously your um your
the type of categories that you want to
tackle
thank you very much
and i hope that was helpful thank you
[Music]
you